Ben/ft zero to hero (#1134)
near/docs: docs/3.tutorials/fts/4.storage.md

---
id: registering-accounts
title: Registering Accounts
sidebar_label: Registering Accounts
---

> In the previous tutorial, you looked at how to mint an initial circulating supply of tokens and how you could log events as per the [events standard](https://nomicon.io/Standards/NonFungibleToken/Event.html). You then deployed the contract and saw the FTs in your wallet balance. In this tutorial, you'll learn about the [storage management](https://nomicon.io/Standards/StorageManagement) standard and how you can register accounts in your FT contract in order to prevent a malicious party from draining your contract of all its funds.

Author: ```suggestion
In the previous tutorial, you looked at how to mint an initial circulating supply of tokens and how you could log events as per the [events standard](https://nomicon.io/Standards/Tokens/FungibleToken/Event). You then deployed the contract and saw the FTs in your wallet balance. In this tutorial, you'll learn about the [storage management](https://nomicon.io/Standards/StorageManagement) standard and how you can register accounts in your FT contract in order to prevent a malicious party from draining your contract of all its funds.
```

## Introduction

> Whenever a new person receives any fungible tokens, they're added to the `accounts` lookup map on the contract. By doing this, you're adding bytes to the contract. If you made it so any user could receive FTs for free, that system could easily be abused. Users could essentially "drain" the contract of all it's funds by sending small amounts of FTs to many accounts. For this reason, you'll want to charge users for the information they're storing and the bytes they're using on the contract. This way of charging users, however, should be standardized so it works across all contracts.

Reviewer: Gonna keep this for now we can revisit in a separate PR

> *enter the [storage management](https://nomicon.io/Standards/StorageManagement) standard*

Reviewer: Fixed e519675be84194fd25a91b7456cc406c7999e05b

<img width="65%" src="/docs/assets/fts/storage-standard-meme.png" />

### Storage Management Standard

The storage management standard is a set of rules that govern how a contract should charge users for storage. It outlines functions and behaviors such that all contracts implementing the standard are interoperable with each other. The 3 functions you'll need to implement are:
- **`storage_deposit`** - Allows a user to deposit some amount of storage to the contract. If the user over deposits, they're refunded for the excess $NEAR.
- **`storage_balance_of`** - Query for the storage paid by a given user
- **`storage_balance_bounds`** - Query for the minimum and maximum amount of storage needed to interact with a given contract.

> With these functions outlined, you could make a reasonable assumption that the flow would be:

Reviewer: Gonna keep this for now we can revisit in a separate PR

``` rust reference
https://github.com/near-examples/ft-tutorial/blob/main/4.storage/src/internal.rs#L29-L34
```

Let's also create a function to panic with a custom message if the user doesn't exist yet.

``` rust reference
https://github.com/near-examples/ft-tutorial/blob/main/4.storage/src/internal.rs#L5-L14
```

Now when you call the `internal_deposit` function, rather than defaulting the user's balance to `0` if they don't exist yet via:
```rust
let balance = self.accounts.get(&account_id).unwrap_or(0);
```
You can replace it with the following:
```rust reference
https://github.com/near-examples/ft-tutorial/blob/main/4.storage/src/internal.rs#L16-L27
```

With this finished, your `internal.rs` should look as follows:

```rust
use near_sdk::{require};

use crate::*;

impl Contract {
    pub(crate) fn internal_unwrap_balance_of(&self, account_id: &AccountId) -> Balance {
      ...
    }

    pub(crate) fn internal_deposit(&mut self, account_id: &AccountId, amount: Balance) {
      ...
    }

    pub(crate) fn internal_register_account(&mut self, account_id: &AccountId) {
      ...
    }

    pub(crate) fn measure_bytes_for_longest_account_id(&mut self) {
      ...
    }
}
```

> There's only one problem you need to solve with this. When initializing the contract, the implementation will throw. This is because you call `internal_deposit` and the owner doesn't have a balance yet. To fix this, let's modify the initialization function to register the owner before depositing the FTs in their account. In addition, you should measure the bytes for the registration in this function.

Reviewer: Gonna keep this for now we can revisit in a separate PR

```rust reference
https://github.com/near-examples/ft-tutorial/blob/main/4.storage/src/lib.rs#L66-L106
```

### Implementing Storage Standard

> With this finished, you're now ready to implement the storage management standard. If you remember, the three functions you'll be implementing, we can break each down into their core functionality and decide how to proceed.

Reviewer: Gonna keep this for now we can revisit in a separate PR

```

### Initialization {#initialization}

Now that the contract is deployed, it's time to initialize it and mint the total supply. Let's once again create an initial supply of 1000 `gtNEAR`.

```bash
near call $STORAGE_FT_CONTRACT_ID new_default_meta '{"owner_id": "'$STORAGE_FT_CONTRACT_ID'", "total_supply": "1000000000000000000000000000"}' --accountId $STORAGE_FT_CONTRACT_ID
```

If you now query for the storage paid by the owner, you should see that they're registered!
  
```bash
near view $STORAGE_FT_CONTRACT_ID storage_balance_of '{"account_id": "'$STORAGE_FT_CONTRACT_ID'"}'
```

This should return a struct. The Total amount is roughly `0.00125 $NEAR` to register and the user has 0 available $NEAR since it's all being used up to pay for registration.

```bash
{ total: '1250000000000000000000', available: '0' }
```

You can also query for the storage balance required to interact with the contract:

```bash
near view $STORAGE_FT_CONTRACT_ID storage_balance_bounds
```

You'll see that it returns the same amount as the `storage_balance_of` query above with the min equal to the max:

```bash
{ min: '1250000000000000000000', max: '1250000000000000000000' }
```

## Conclusion

> Today you went through and created the logic for registering users on the contract. This logic adheres to the [storage management standard](https://nomicon.io/Standards/StorageManagement) and is customized to meet our needs when writing a FT contract. You then built, deployed, and tested those changes. In the next tutorial, you'll look at the basics of how to transfer FTs to other users.

Author: ```suggestion
Today you went through and created the logic for registering users on the contract. This logic adheres to the [storage management standard](https://nomicon.io/Standards/StorageManagement) and is customized to meet our needs when writing a FT contract. You then built, deployed, and tested those changes. In the [next tutorial](5.transfers.md), you'll look at the basics of how to transfer FTs to other users.
```
